In establishing the John Monash Science School, the inaugural School Council and School Leadership
Team felt it important that the school should adopt a uniform for its students, and that this uniform
should look distinctively smart, seen as appropriate for a senior secondary school on a university
campus. The school believes that the appearance of our students, both while at school and when in
the public eye, for example when traveling to and from school, and when on excursions, is
important. The uniform is an outward symbol of the school, both when students are on and offsite.
Therefore, we expect our students to wear their uniform correctly and with pride.
The school adopted navy blue, the distinctive Monash blue, and white, as the core colours, and has
created a separate uniform for the warmer and cooler weather, as well as for Sports. The summer
uniform is traditionally worn in terms one and four, and the winter uniform in terms two and three,
although students are welcome to wear either as appropriate. Short-sleeved white shirts
traditionally accompany the summer uniform, and long-sleeved white shirts are worn with the
winter uniform. The sport uniform is worn in all Physical Education classes, at sporting events and on
some excursions.
Every student has a blazer and wears this as the outer garment. The blazer can be worn throughout
the year, with all students wearing it in the cooler months in terms two and three. The blazer must
be worn at all formal school occasions such as whole-school assemblies, the annual Information
Night and Presentation Night. Ties are worn with the winter uniform and on formal occasions.
The Student Uniform and Appearance Policy forms a key part of the JMSS Pillar ‘Learning To Live
Together’. At John Monash Science School, it assists students to develop a sense of pride and
belonging to our school community. It encourages responsibility through self-discipline and provides
for equality through a non-discriminatory code of dress. The uniform is the most recognisable
feature of our school, whether students are in or out of school.
Schools are often judged by the outward appearance of their students, and certainly by their
behaviour. Our school is represented by our students whenever they are wearing our uniform.
Therefore, we expect each of them to adopt a neat personal appearance, wear the correct JMSS
school uniform and behave appropriately whenever they are at school, on an excursion or travelling
to and from school.
GUIDELINES:
1.1 The wearing of school uniform is compulsory for all students from Year 10 to Year 12.
1.2 School uniform must be worn correctly at, to and from school and on all excursions (unless
specified otherwise).
1.3 When the uniform is worn correctly, there should be no visible item that is not stated in this
policy.
1.4 Provision shall be made for those families for which this policy causes financial difficulties.
Families should approach the Assistant Principal (Student Empowerment, House & Achievement).
IMPLEMENTATION:
2.1 The Uniform Policy will be downloadable from the school’s website.
2.2 Correct wearing of will be monitored by staff.
2.3 Students out of uniform must obtain a Uniform Pass from their House Mentor or House Leader.
This must be done before the commencement of Period 1 whenever possible, or by recess at the
latest. A Compass Chronicle entry will be entered and the student will receive a Uniform Pass to
carry on them.
2.4 Students who breach the uniform policy will have a breach entered on a Compass Chronicle.
Three breaches in a term will generate a work management session. However, if there is an
apparent lack of regard of the policy, a work management session may be issued before three
breaches have accrued.
BASIS OF DISCRETION:
3.1 The teacher in charge of an excursion or activity, after prior consultation with a Principal Class
Member, may decide that it is appropriate for students to wear the sports uniform for that excursion
or activity. In some cases, such as when conducting fieldwork, plain clothes might be preferred. This
will be communicated to families prior to the excursion.
3.2 When a student travels to school on a bicycle for long distances or walks long distances,
appropriate travel attire can be discussed with the school and a Uniform Pass will be pinned to their
Compass.
SCHOOL EXPECTATIONS:
4.1 A blazer (and tie when wearing a school shirt) is required to be worn on formal occasions. These
include school assemblies, photos day, some excursions, presentation nights and other occasions as
specified.
4.2 A blazer is to be worn as the outer layer every day during Terms 2 & 3, but is optional during
Terms 1 & 4. Yr 12 students may choose to wear their Yr 12 Jacket instead, however, not on formal
occasions.
4.3 Acceptable school shoes are black, leather (or leather-look), laced-up shoes that are fully
enclosed and flat-heeled. (Sandals and T-bars are not permitted).
4.4 Socks are to be plain, without a logo or designs.
4.5 Students are permitted to wear one facial piercing. Clear retainers can also be worn. Jewellery
must be removable and comply with OHS standards (e.g. large hooped earrings, loose fitting
bangles, etc.). Where jewellery does not comply with OHS standards, the student will not be
permitted to partake in any activity that jeopardises their (or others’) safety.
4.6 Watches are permitted. Smart watches will need to be removed and not accessible when
completing assessment tasks.
4.7 Students are not permitted to wear a combination of school uniform and sport uniform. The only
exception to this is that the sports spray jacket can be worn, to and from school, over the school
uniform when it is raining.
4.8 Sports / PE uniform can be worn by Year 10 & 11 students throughout the day on Wednesday
(only) because of the Co-Curricular activities on Wednesday afternoon and other physical activities
that run on a Wednesday.
4.9 Sports / PE uniform must be worn for all Sports / PE classes. Students representing the school in
interschool sports activities must wear the John Monash Science School sports uniform. Students
who have a PE /Sport activity on a day are allowed to wear PE uniform for the day, but only if they
are in complete JMSS sports uniform. Otherwise, they are to change in and out of school uniform
when they are not partaking in the PE / Sport activity.
4.10 Sandshoes, sneakers, and other sports shoes must be worn in PE / Sport classes, and may be
worn in the yard at recess and lunchtime for the purposes of playing games, but they are not
acceptable as a replacement for school shoes at other times.
4.11 Students are strongly advised to wear the JMSS cap outside and at sports.
4.12 Students are expecting to bring and wear their JMSS lab coat and safety glasses when
completing lab work.
4.13 ‘Out of Uniform’ days are sometimes held in order to raise money for social service. On such
occasions, neat casual dress and neat safe (closed-toes) footwear is permitted.